Pitou Teng
September 16, 2020
Mobile App I

Homework Assignment 2: Reflections, Ideas, and Planning

1.	Based on the reports of your fellow classmates during our last class (2020-09-09), please briefly summarize any new ideas for apps to solve people’s problems that you have come up with as a result of listening to other students.

Problem people faces in when build or renovating a home bad encounter with builder/contractor. Especially for first time 
buyer who haven’t have much experience in the real estate, contractors often overcharge, give low quality work that will 
lead to further problem in the future without warranty, and worst abandon the contract after getting a paycheck. People who
never hire a contract before doesn’t know the credibility of a contractor.
My idea for an app to the solve the problem is place where contractor can list their services with a review system to measure 
quality and experiences the owner had with individual contractor. An overview of the apps is contractor creates and account and
list there offering services. Owner can contact the contractor and possibly agreed to a service. After the work is finished the
owner can write a review and rating his/her experience with the contractor. The contractor could also write a review and rating
for the owner has well, in the case of the owner having unrealistic expectation, etc. 

2.	Several people mentioned the “conflict” between the desire to have a free app, and developers’ desire (and need) to get compensated. Can you suggest any ways by which developers can reap their creativity’s and efforts’ rewards without alienating their “customer base” by inundating with ads and/or charging them?

There is a quote “there ain’t such thing as a free lunch” in the world of economy. There is not a way to go around ads or
pay for the service unless an apps is non-profit. In the world where data privacy is more important than ever, whenever a 
software service is free to use, you are the product. Your data get sold and they are of value to other. And often the 
data is used to serve targeted ads to the users.

3.	Please point to any app/software/website that offers in your opinion an excellent UI/UX. Briefly explain in what ways you find its UI/UX to be so good.

A robinhood stock trading app has good ui/ux. The apps present information on stock in a simplistic way without. It shows good
looking graph of your whole performance portfolio. Placing a trade is easy and intuitive with the swipe up to place order. The
app also easy to search stock and also find new stock by many different categories. The tool sometimes can be lacking and not
powerful enough. But adding more stuff can defeat what made the ui/ux good in the first place which is simplicity.

4.	Have last class’s discussions and/or items #1-3 gotten you closer toward a mobile app you would like to pursue as a project for this course? Please discuss briefly.

Last class discussion gets me thinking about multiple ideas, and introduce problems when building an app. This items #1-3 helps 
narrow down ideas to one. It helps me organize my thoughts and put app idea into more details.
